Toggle the table of contents
Memory hierarchy
20 languages
العربية
Català
Deutsch
Español
فارسی
Français
Galego
עברית
Bahasa Indonesia
Қазақша
한국어
Lietuvių
Nederlands
Português
Русский
Српски / srpski
Svenska
Türkçe
Українська
中文
Edit links
Article
Talk
English
Read
Edit
View history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar hide
Actions
Read
Edit
View history
General
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Permanent link
Page information
Cite this page
Get shortened URL
Switch to legacy parser
Print/export
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Computer memory architecture
Diagram of the computer memory hierarchy
Computer memory and data storage types
General
Memory cell
Memory coherence
Cache coherence
Memory hierarchy
Memory access pattern
Memory map
Secondary storage
MOS memory
floating-gate
Continuous availability
Areal density (computer storage)
Block (data storage)
Object storage
Direct-attached storage
Network-attached storage
Storage area network
Block-level storage
Single-instance storage
Data
Structured data
Unstructured data
Big data
Metadata
Data compression
Data corruption
Data cleansing
Data degradation
Data integrity
Data security
Data validation
Data validation and reconciliation
Data recovery
Storage
Data cluster
Directory
Shared resource
File sharing
File system
Clustered file system
Distributed file system
Distributed file system for cloud
Distributed data store
Distributed database
Database
Data bank
Data storage
Data store
Data deduplication
Data structure
Data redundancy
Replication (computing)
Memory refresh
Storage record
Information repository
Knowledge base
Computer file
Object file
File deletion
File copying
Backup
Core dump
Hex dump
Data communication
Information transfer
Temporary file
Copy protection
Digital rights management
Volume (computing)
Boot sector
Master boot record
Volume boot record
GUID Partition Table
Disk array
Disk image
Disk mirroring
Disk aggregation
Disk partitioning
Memory segmentation
Locality of reference
Logical disk
Storage virtualization
Virtual memory
Memory-mapped file
Software entropy
Software rot
In-memory database
In-memory processing
Persistence (computer science)
Persistent data structure
RAID
Non-RAID drive architectures
Memory paging
Bank switching
Grid computing
Cloud computing
Cloud storage
Fog computing
Edge computing
Dew computing
Amdahl's law
Moore's law
Kryder's law
Volatile
RAM
Hardware cache
CPU cache
Scratchpad memory
DRAM
eDRAM
SDRAM
SGRAM
DDR
GDDR
LPDDR
QDRSRAM
EDO DRAM
XDR DRAM
RDRAM
HBM
SRAM
1T-SRAM
ReRAM
QRAM
Content-addressable memory (CAM)
Computational RAM
VRAM
Dual-ported RAM
Video RAM (dual-ported DRAM)
Historical
Williams–Kilburn tube (1946–1947)
Delay-line memory (1947)
Mellon optical memory (1951)
Selectron tube (1952)
Dekatron
T-RAM (2009)
Z-RAM (2002–2010)
Non-volatile
ROM
Diode matrix
MROM
PROM
EPROM
EEPROM
ROM cartridge
Solid-state storage (SSS)
Flash memory is used in:
Solid-state drive (SSD)
Solid-state hybrid drive (SSHD)
USB flash drive
IBM FlashSystem
Flash Core Module
Memory card
Memory Stick
CompactFlash
PC Card
MultiMediaCard
SD card
SIM card
SmartMedia
Universal Flash Storage
SxS
MicroP2
XQD card
Programmable metallization cell
NVRAM
Memistor
Memristor
PCM (3D XPoint)
MRAM
Electrochemical RAM (ECRAM)
Nano-RAM
CBRAM
Early-stage NVRAM
FeRAM
ReRAM
FeFET memory
Analog recording
Phonograph cylinder
Phonograph record
Quadruplex videotape
Vision Electronic Recording Apparatus
Magnetic recording
Magnetic storage
Magnetic tape
Magnetic-tape data storage
Tape drive
Tape library
Digital Data Storage (DDS)
Videotape
Cassette tape
Linear Tape-Open
Betamax
8 mm video format
DV
MiniDV
MicroMV
U-matic
VHS
S-VHS
VHS-C
D-VHS
Hard disk drive
Optical
3D optical data storage
Optical disc
LaserDisc
Compact Disc Digital Audio (CDDA)
CD
CD Video
CD-R
CD-RW
Video CD
Super Video CD
Mini CD
Nintendo optical discs
CD-ROM
Hyper CD-ROM
DVD
DVD+R
DVD-Video
DVD card
DVD-RAM
MiniDVD
HD DVD
Blu-ray
Ultra HD Blu-ray
Holographic Versatile Disc
WORM
In development
CBRAM
Racetrack memory
NRAM
Millipede memory
ECRAM
Patterned media
Holographic data storage
Electronic quantum holography
5D optical data storage
DNA digital data storage
Universal memory
Time crystal
Quantum memory
UltraRAM
Historical
Paper data storage (1725)
Punched card (1725)
Punched tape (1725)
Plugboard
Drum memory (1932)
Magnetic-core memory (1949)
Plated-wire memory (1957)
Core rope memory (1960s)
Thin-film memory (1962)
Disk pack (1962)
Twistor memory (~1968)
Bubble memory (~1970)
Floppy disk (1971)
v
t
e
Not to be confused with Learning pyramid.
In computer architecture, the memory hierarchy separates computer storage into a hierarchy based on response time. Since response time, complexity, and capacity are related, the levels may also be distinguished by their performance and controlling technologies.[1] Memory hierarchy affects performance in computer architectural design, algorithm predictions, and lower level programming constructs involving locality of reference.
Designing for high performance requires considering the restrictions of the memory hierarchy, i.e. the size and capabilities of each component. Each of the various components can be viewed as part of a hierarchy of memories (m1, m2, ..., mn) in which each member mi is typically smaller and faster than the next highest member mi+1 of the hierarchy. To limit waiting by higher levels, a lower level will respond by filling a buffer and then signaling for activating the transfer.
There are four major storage levels.[1]
Internal – processor registers and cache.
Main – the system RAM and controller cards.
On-line mass storage – secondary storage.
Off-line bulk storage – tertiary and off-line storage.
This is a general memory hierarchy structuring. Many other structures are useful. For example, a paging algorithm may be considered as a level for virtual memory when designing a computer architecture, and one can include a level of nearline storage between online and offline storage.
Properties of the technologies in the memory hierarchy
[edit]
Adding complexity slows the memory hierarchy.[2]
CMOx memory technology stretches the flash space in the memory hierarchy[3]
One of the main ways to increase system performance is minimising how far down the memory hierarchy one has to go to manipulate data.[4]
Latency and bandwidth are two metrics associated with caches. Neither of them is uniform, but is specific to a particular component of the memory hierarchy.[5]
Predicting where in the memory hierarchy the data resides is difficult.[5]
The location in the memory hierarchy dictates the time required for the prefetch to occur.[5]
Examples
[edit]
Memory hierarchy of an AMD Bulldozer server as detected by hwloc's lstopo tool
The number of levels in the memory hierarchy and the performance at each level has increased over time. The type of memory or storage components also change historically.[6]
Cache, memory, and external storage hierarchy of a 2020s computer system (AMD Zen 4)
Level
Size
Throughput
Latency
Notes
Register file
18,432 bits
Up to 256 GB/s (512 bits/cycle)
0.25 ns (1 cycle)[7]
All CPU-related conversion assumes a 4.0 GHz clock. Same for below. Full utilization of throughput is impossible on real workloads. Size is provided for each core.
CPU cache
L1 data
32 KiB
Up to 64 GB/s (64 bytes/4 cycles)
1 ns (4 cycles)[7]
Hardware prefetching is required for maximum throughput. Size and throughput are per-core. Code cache has the same size but is not manipulable as data.
L2
1 MB
Up to 18.3 GB/s (64 bytes/14 cycles)
3.5 ns (14 cycles)[7]
Size and throughput are per-core.
L3
16–32 MB
Up to 5.45 GB/s (64 bytes/47 cycles)
11.75 ns (47 cycles)[7]
Size is shared among 8 cores. Throughput is per-core.
Main memory (primary)
64 GiB
~60 GB/s
82.5 ns
Size is shared among all cores. Latency depends on the memory clock and memory timings. In this case, a result from a pair of 32 GB DDR5 DIMMs set to 6000 MT/s via the factory EXPO profile is used.[8]
Systems with multiple CPU sockets have an additional NUMA delay when a CPU tries to access memory under the control of another NUMA node.
Mass storage
(secondary)
Solid-state drive
2 TB
2000 MB/s
0.2 ms
Figures for a M.2 NVMe SSD from 2017, the Samsung 960 Pro.[9]
Hard disk drive
18 TB
500 MB/s
4.16 ms
Per-drive figures for Exos 2X18 (ST18000NM0092), an enterprise-grade 3.5 inch SATA HDD.[10]
Nearline
(tertiary)
Spun-down HDDs (MAID)
Petabytes
25 s
Per-drive figures for Exos 2X18 (ST18000NM0092), from user manual entry for "start/stop times".[11] In a typical MAID setup, hundreds of spun-down HDDs may be used for petabytes of storage.
Tape library
Exabytes
160 MB/s[12]
Minutes
Offline storage
Exabytes
Depends on medium
Depends on human operation
Some CPUs include additional levels of cache between L3 and memory. For example, the Haswell microarchitecture includes an L4 cache of 128 MB on mobile units.[13][14]
The lower levels of the hierarchy – from mass storage downwards – are also known as tiered storage. The formal distinction between online, nearline, and offline storage is:[15]
Online storage is immediately available for I/O.
Nearline storage is not immediately available, but can be made online quickly without human intervention.
Offline storage is not immediately available, and requires some human intervention to bring online.
For example, always-on spinning disks are online, while spinning disks that spin down, such as massive arrays of idle disk (MAID), are nearline. Removable media such as tape cartridges that can be automatically loaded, as in a tape library, are nearline, while cartridges that must be manually loaded are offline.
Programming
[edit]
Most modern CPUs are so fast that, for most program workloads, the bottleneck is the locality of reference of memory accesses and the efficiency of the caching and memory transfer between different levels of the hierarchy[citation needed]. As a result, the CPU spends much of its time idling, waiting for memory I/O to complete. This is sometimes called the space cost, as a larger memory object is more likely to overflow a small and fast level and require use of a larger, slower level. The resulting load on memory use is known as pressure (respectively register pressure, cache pressure, and (main) memory pressure). Terms for data being missing from a higher level and needing to be fetched from a lower level are, respectively: register spilling (due to register pressure: register to cache), cache miss (cache to main memory), and (hard) page fault (real main memory to virtual memory, i.e. mass storage, commonly referred to as disk regardless of the actual mass storage technology used).
Modern programming languages mainly assume two levels of memory, main (working) memory and mass storage. The exception is the relatively low-level assembly language and in the inline assemblers of higher-level languages such as C where "prefetch" instructions can be used to preload the cache. Taking optimal advantage of the memory hierarchy requires the cooperation of programmers, hardware, and compilers (as well as underlying support from the operating system):
Programmers are responsible for moving data between disk and memory through file I/O.
Hardware is responsible for moving data between memory and caches.
Optimizing compilers are responsible for generating code that, when executed, will cause the hardware to use caches and registers efficiently.
Many programmers assume one level of memory. This works fine until the application hits a performance wall. At that point, the programmer needs to change the code's memory access patterns to that it works well with cache resources. A classic illustration of the effect of locality and caching is in the form of changing the order of iterating a three-dimensional array. Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective is a classic textbook that deals with this aspect of systems programming.[16]
Memory tiering
[edit]
Memory tiering is the practice of dividing the main memory into several levels by their performance characteristics, and (in analogy to storage tiering) moving memory content between them. What appears to be the "main memory" (physical address space) can be made up of heterogeneous parts due to NUMA, CXL-attached memory (on PCIe slots), Optane DCPMMs, or memory found on other expansion hardware such as coprocessors and GPUs, hence the need for tiering. Swapping can also be considered a form of tiering.[17]
Memory tiering is implemented on Linux as an extension to NUMA, where each memory provider has a CPU-less NUMA node with an appropriate "abstract distance" reflecting its performance. The existing scheme for migrating memory between NUMA nodes using "hotness" indicated by page faults is adapted to tiering by Huang Ying (Al Maruf's TPP scheme is not in Linux mainline).[18] It also uses a weighted-interleave allocation policy.[19]
See also
[edit]
Cache hierarchy
Buffer vs. cache
Cache hierarchy in a modern processor
Memory wall
Computer memory
Hierarchical storage management
Cloud storage
Memory access pattern
Communication-avoiding algorithm
References
[edit]
1 2 Toy, Wing; Zee, Benjamin (1986). Computer Hardware/Software Architecture. Prentice Hall. p. 30. ISBN 0-13-163502-6.
↑ Write-combining
↑ "Memory Hierarchy". Unitity Semiconductor Corporation. Archived from the original on 5 August 2009. Retrieved 16 September 2009.
↑ Pádraig Brady. "Multi-Core". Retrieved 16 September 2009.
1 2 3 van der Pas, Ruud (2002). "Memory Hierarchy in Cache-Based Systems" (PDF). Santa Clara, California: Sun Microsystems: 26. 817-0742-10. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
1 2 3 4 Fog, Agner. "The microarchitecture of Intel and AMD CPUs" (PDF). Chapters used: 24.16 Cache and memory access (Zen 4).
↑ "Samsung 960 Pro M.2 NVMe SSD Review". storagereview.com. 20 October 2016. Retrieved 2017-04-13.
↑ "Datasheet Exos 2X18" (PDF).
↑ "2X18 SATA Product Manual" (PDF).
↑ "Ultrium – LTO Technology – Ultrium GenerationsLTO". Lto.org. Archived from the original on 2011-07-27. Retrieved 2014-07-31.
↑ Crothers, Brooke. "Dissecting Intel's top graphics in Apple's 15-inch MacBook Pro – CNET". News.cnet.com. Retrieved 2014-07-31.
↑ "SiSoftware Zone". Sisoftware.co.uk. Archived from the original on 2014-09-13. Retrieved 2014-07-31.
↑ Pearson, Tony (2010). "Correct use of the term Nearline". IBM Developerworks, Inside System Storage. Archived from the original on 2018-11-27. Retrieved 2015-08-16.
↑ Corbet, Jonathan (May 12, 2023). "The future of memory tiering". LWN.
↑ Corbet, Jonathan (October 25, 2023). "Weighted interleaving for memory tiering". LWN.
Categories:
Computer architecture
Computer data storage
Hierarchy
Hidden categories:
Articles with short description
CS1 errors: missing periodical
All articles with unsourced statements